Why you don't use state
management in React anymore?
>> Good question, why don't I use
state management in React anymore?
Because hooks solve it pretty much.
I mean, you think about the different
types of state that you have.
You have state that came from an API,
right, like data.
Then you have application state,
like show this model,
this form is loading, things like that.
So stay tuned from API, I would actually
just use a custom library that's
probably hook and I'll talk about those
later on like SWR, or react query.
And that that handles all my, you know,
my API state for me done okay.
Now application state, well i dont use
use state for that right almost never
need to share state across multiple
Instances of components deep in the tree.
And if I do, I'll use a provider and
context and I'll pass that state down.
And if I'm really just getting fancy, I'll
even do the use reducer hook if I really
want to, you know, do some stuff,
but I haven't had to pull that out.
Other than one time.
So after doing that, I'm just like,
I don't really need a state
management solution.
I mean, every component is in charge
of its own state using use state.
And if you got to pass something down,
pass it down if you got to pass
it down really far, use context.
And that's kind of what I've been doing,
I haven't had the need to grow
past that since hooks came out.
>> Should I learn state management or
not, I mean,
there are courses,
>> I don't think it's helpful to
learn one particular
state management library,
I think it's helpful to understand
how to manage state and react.
And just learning one pattern is going
to open up a whole new area of like,
I understand how unidirectional
data flow happens.
I understand how events are handled and
things like that.
And it doesn't really matter what
library you pick whether it's Redux or
whatever is out there these days.
[LAUGH] I don't know there's so many
things out there these days, I don't know.
But just learning just one pattern of how
to manage data it's gonna, you know, it's
gonna give you an opinion, which is gonna,
obviously help you out in the long run.
And from there just learn all the other
different patterns that are that
are coming out.
So yeah, I think it's helpful to learn one
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, like I was saying,
this is probably the easiest setup for
oauth authentication I've ever
done on any node thing ever.
I mean, if we look at all the server code
that we wrote, it was this, that was it.
That's all we did.
That's all we did on the server,
we didn't do anything else and
we got GitHub off, so
I was a big fan of passport.
I'm still a big fan of grant,
which is really nice,
but this right here was just like wow,
okay,
I don't think it gets easier than this so
good job necks off team.
Okay, now that we have the sign up or
sign in working,
let's see what we got to do next.
The last thing we want to do is we want to
add this provider here to the app page.
So if you can, if you go back to
what I was doing in the sign in you
see I'm doing this use session.
This use session is using context
inside of it to access a session.
And it's gonna get it cuz it's
gonna happen at times, but
we can speed this up if we
provide its service side.
So when we get to the app page where
we start doing service side props,
we can get the session there and
pass it to the app.
So the rest of the app can actually
benefit of having a session without having
to make additional API calls.
Is this a performance thing?
So we don't have to keep asking
the API over and over again, hey,
this is a session, they'll just get
it because it was already there
because the page that came before it
already rendered it and pass it along.
So it's a performance thing.
So we're going to do that, and we're going
to do that by going into the app and
you can see I got a whole
bunch of comments in here.
This was a nasty bug, if you're
interested, that was really nasty.
We're gonna import Provider here,
and then we're going to just
provide the Provider or
something like that.
And I want to say, what does it take?
session?
That's right.
So it's gonna take session.
And then page props are basically
the props that the page is getting.
So if we think about pages how they get
props, where in the page do we define
the props, or we're in a pace
can we pass props actually,
Getstatic props get server side props.
So basically any page, whatever a page
returns and get static props or
get service, our props,
that's what's going to be here.
So one of those pages we're going
to use get server side props and
it's going to return a session.
That session is what we're
going to pass in right here.